OSSMDOC-628: make SMCP upgrade generic. (#49364)
openshift/openshift-docs: service_mesh/v2x/upgrading-ossm.adoc

endif::[]

[id="upgrading-control-plane"]
== Upgrading the control plane

You must manually update the control plane for minor and major releases.

> While you can deploy multiple versions of the control plane in the same cluster, {SMProductName} does not support canary upgrades of the service mesh.  That is, you can have different SCMP resources with different values for `spec.version`, but they cannot be managing the same mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you can deploy many versions of the control plane in the same cluster, {SMProductName} does not support canary upgrades of the service mesh.  That is, you can have different SCMP resources with different values for `spec.version`, but they cannot be managing the same mesh.
```

Reviewer: These two changes are per the word usage list in the ISG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage

include::modules/ossm-upgrade-21-22-changes.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

For more information about migrating your extensions, refer to xref:../../service_mesh/v2x/ossm-extensions.adoc#ossm-extensions-migration-overview_ossm-extensions[Migrating from ServiceMeshExtension to WasmPlugin resources].

include::modules/ossm-upgrade-20-21-changes.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/ossm-upgrading-smcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/ossm-migrating-to-20.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="upgrading-data-plane"]
== Upgrading the data plane

> Your data plane will still function after you have upgraded the control plane.  But in order to apply updates to the Envoy proxy and any changes to proxy configuration, you must restart your application pods and workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your data plane will still function after you have upgraded the control plane.  But to apply updates to the Envoy proxy and any changes to the proxy configuration, you must restart your application pods and workloads.
```

Reviewer: See ISG guidelines for 'in order to'. https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage
